docs: add howto configure jubilant logs (#2619)
canonical/operator: docs/howto/write-integration-tests-for-a-charm.md

> - [`pytest | How to invoke pytest`](https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.1.x/how-to/usage.html)
> - [](#validate-your-charm-with-every-change)

(write-integration-tests-for-a-charm-configure-jubilant-logs)=
## Configure Jubilant logs

Jubilant emits logs during the integration tests. These logs are captured and displayed by pytest. You can configure the logging behaviour in the `[tool.pytest.ini_options]` table in `pyproject.toml`.

### Logging levels

Jubilant logs across three levels:
- `INFO`: brief progress updates, including run Juju CLI commands, the test model's bootstrap status, and any application or unit status changes during `juju.wait()`.
- `DEBUG`: verbose model status changes during `juju.wait()`.

> - `ERROR`: application or unit status changes during `juju.wait()` whenever they transition into error.

Reviewer: Very minor suggestions. All are style preferences.

```suggestion
Jubilant logs at three levels:
- `INFO` — Brief progress updates, including Juju commands, the test model's bootstrap status, and any application or unit status changes during `juju.wait()`.
- `DEBUG` — Verbose model status changes during `juju.wait()`.
- `ERROR` — Application or unit status changes during `juju.wait()` whenever the state becomes "error".
```

> 

Reviewer: ~~I think it would be good to add a sentence or two (max) about how the different levels interact. E.g., if I set DEBUG I'm still going to get everything that INFO logs.~~

Reviewer 2: I'm less sure about this. Isn't it reasonable to assume a basic knowledge of Python logging?

Reviewer: Yeah, that's true. I've changed my mind after reading Tony's comment. The examples do show it too - in case someone didn't know already.

### Examples

> **Config for brief logging**

Reviewer: We could make this a `#`x4 heading, which would then be linkable and show in the TOC. But I _really_ try to avoid headings at that level of depth

Now that I can see what it looks like in the rendered doc, I'd consider two `#`x3 headings:

```
### Example of brief logging

...

### Example of verbose logging

...
```

For more than two examples this pattern would be annoying, but for two examples I think it's OK. Or I'm happy with what you have now - you choose 🙂

Author: I'm in favor of making them linkable. So I will pick the two `###` headings approach. Thank you for the suggestion.

```toml
[tool.pytest.ini_options]
...
log_cli = true
log_cli_level = "INFO"
log_cli_format = "%(levelname)s %(name)s %(message)s"
```

> A sample output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sample output:
```

```text
INFO jubilant cli: juju deploy --model jubilant-b3578475-test-charm ...
INFO jubilant.wait [fastapi-demo] status changed: waiting (installing agent)
INFO jubilant.wait [fastapi-demo/0] status changed: waiting (installing agent)
INFO jubilant.wait [fastapi-demo] status changed: waiting (installing agent) -> waiting (agent initialising)
INFO jubilant.wait [fastapi-demo/0] status changed: waiting (installing agent) -> waiting (agent initialising)
```

**Config for verbose logging**

```toml
[tool.pytest.ini_options]
...
log_cli = true
log_cli_level = "DEBUG"
log_cli_format = "%(asctime)s %(levelname)s %(name)s %(message)s"
log_cli_date_format = "%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ"
```

> We define the timestamps format with the `log_cli_date_format` key, following ISO 8601.

Reviewer: I think this would be fine.

```suggestion
The timestamp format follows ISO 8601.
```

> See more: [`datetime | strftime() and strptime() format codes`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#strftime-and-strptime-format-codes)

Reviewer: This can be an intersphinx link, which will render as an external link in the docs.

```suggestion
See more: {external+python:ref}`strftime() and strptime() behavior <strftime-strptime-behavior>`
```

> A sample output (timestamps removed for clarity):

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this makes things clearer - but I know what you're getting at!

As an alternative approach, how about putting `<timestamp>` on the fist line, then `...` in the same location on all subsequent lines.

```text
INFO jubilant cli: juju deploy --model jubilant-6ffd8f91-test-charm ...
INFO jubilant.wait [fastapi-demo] status changed: waiting (installing agent)
INFO jubilant.wait [fastapi-demo/0] status changed: waiting (installing agent)
DEBUG jubilant.wait wait: status changed:

> + .apps['fastapi-demo'].app_status.current = 'waiting'

Reviewer 2: I think it would be good if the debug example included something that isn't in the info level. Otherwise, it looks like it's all duplicate information. But actually you get more at debug level.

+ .apps['fastapi-demo'].app_status.message = 'installing agent'
+ .apps['fastapi-demo'].units['fastapi-demo/0'].workload_status.current = 'waiting'
+ .apps['fastapi-demo'].units['fastapi-demo/0'].workload_status.message = 'installing agent'
...
INFO jubilant.wait [fastapi-demo] status changed: waiting (installing agent) -> waiting (agent initialising)
INFO jubilant.wait [fastapi-demo/0] status changed: waiting (installing agent) -> waiting (agent initialising)
DEBUG jubilant.wait wait: status changed:
- .apps['fastapi-demo'].app_status.message = 'installing agent'
+ .apps['fastapi-demo'].app_status.message = 'agent initialising'
- .apps['fastapi-demo'].units['fastapi-demo/0'].workload_status.message = 'installing agent'
+ .apps['fastapi-demo'].units['fastapi-demo/0'].workload_status.message = 'agent initialising'
...
```

> The pytest logging options can also be configured from the command line.

Reviewer: Very minor: I'd make this more active. Something like:

```suggestion
You can also configure pytest logging options on the command line.
```

> See more: [`pytest | How to manage logging`](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/how-to/logging.html)

Reviewer: No need for the code font (I know that's the style used elsewhere in the doc, but it's a historical leftover)

```suggestion
See more: [pytest | How to manage logging](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/how-to/logging.html)
```

### Default behaviour

If no logging configuration is set by `tool.pytest.ini_options` or pytest CLI arguments, pytest captures all log messages at `WARNING` level or above. You will still see messages from:

- pytest. For example: `tests/integration/test_charm.py::test_deploy PASSED`.
- Other modules if the messages are at `WARNING` or above.

> - `pytest-jubilant`. For example: `Models were torn down...`.

Reviewer: Super minor style preference

```suggestion
- pytest. For example, `tests/integration/test_charm.py::test_deploy PASSED`.
- Other modules if the messages are at `WARNING` or above.
- `pytest-jubilant`. For example, `Models were torn down...`.
```

(write-integration-tests-log-to-a-file)=
### Log to a file

This is an ideal configuration for long-running integration tests (for example, in CI). It outputs brief logs to the console and verbose logs to a local file.

```toml
[tool.pytest.ini_options]
...

> log_level = "INFO"

Reviewer: Is this left over? I don't see `log_level` mentioned anywhere else.

Author: This is not a left over. This option is intentional to keep the `Captured log call` section, which is printed to the terminal, consistent with the brief Jubilant logs. We only need it in this specific config.

The explanation for this option was removed (as discussed in https://github.com/canonical/operator/pull/2619#discussion_r3574743631), because I thought it is less about "howto", and more about "explanation".

Reviewer 2: What about:

```suggestion
log_level = "INFO"  # Retain the "Captured log call" section when run interactively.
```

Reviewer: Tony's suggestion looks good to me. I still don't fully understand why `log_level = "INFO"` would be needed here and not in the config for brief logging.

Author: I love the idea of adding a comment there. May I modify it a little bit, since `Captured log call` is still there whether you set `log_level = "INFO"` or not. `log_level = "INFO"` makes sure that only INFO level messages are retained in `Captured log call`

```
log_level = "INFO"  # Retain INFO logs in the "Captured log call" section when run interactively.
```

Author: > I still don't fully understand why log_level = "INFO" would be needed here and not in the config for brief logging.

It's one of pytest's surprised behaviours. The capture log handler (that handles `Captured log call` section) is different from live cli handler (configured with `log_cli_level`) and file handler (configured with `log_file_level`). However, capture log handler level depends on the minimum level between `log_cli_level` and `log_file_level`. If we set `log_cli_level` to INFO, and `log_file_level` to DEBUG, capture log handler will have DEBUG level -> `log_level = "INFO"` is the cleanest way to enforce this back to INFO.

To me, it's also not ideal to have `log_level = "INFO"` here but not in brief logging. If it's too confusing, I can definitely remove it, and leave the verbose DEBUG logs in `Captured log call`.

Reviewer: Thanks for the explanation! I understand better now and think `log_level` is worth keeping.

How about this for the comment. Too much?

```
# Retain INFO logs in the "Captured log call" section when run interactively.
# Otherwise, that section will have DEBUG logs (coming from log_file_level).
log_level = "INFO"
```

Author: I like your suggestion. I will use it.

log_cli = true
log_cli_level = "INFO"
log_cli_format = "%(levelname)s %(name)s %(message)s"

log_file = "logs/verbose.log"
log_file_level = "DEBUG"
log_file_format = "%(asctime)s %(levelname)s %(name)s %(message)s"
log_file_date_format = "%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ"
```

If you run the integration tests multiple times, `logs/verbose.log` only contains logs from the last pytest session. To use a separate file for each session, override `log_file` for each pytest invocation:

```
pytest --log-file "run1.log" ...
pytest --log-file "run2.log" ...
```

Alternatively, you can set `log-file-mode` to `append`. pytest will put verbose logs from all invocations into one file:

```toml
[tool.pytest.ini_options]

> log-file-mode = "a"

Reviewer: Should this be underscored for the config option version?

```suggestion
log_file_mode = "a"
```

Author: Oops. Yes, thanks for the catch.

...
```

> These options can also be configured from the command line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also configure these options on the command line.
```

> See more: [`pytest | How to manage logging`](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/how-to/logging.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See more: [pytest | How to manage logging](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/how-to/logging.html)
```

In CI, you can use `actions/upload-artifact` to make `logs/verbose.log` available as a build artifact:

```yaml
  # In your integration test job
  - run: tox -e integration
  - name: Upload logs
    if: ${{ !cancelled() }}
    uses: actions/upload-artifact@v7
    with:
      name: integration-test-logs
      path: logs
```

(write-integration-tests-for-a-charm-view-juju-logs)=
## View `juju debug-log` logs

> Save the complete `juju debug-log` logs to disk with the `--juju-dump-logs` option from [pytest-jubilant](https://github.com/canonical/pytest-jubilant#--juju-dump-logs). For example:

Reviewer: I'd switch this around for slightly smoother reading. Also suggest dropping "for example" because the example already seems pretty generic.

```
Use the `--juju-dump-logs` option from [pytest-jubilant](https://github.com/canonical/pytest-jubilant#--juju-dump-logs) to save the complete `juju debug-log` logs to disk:
```

```text
tox -e integration -- --juju-dump-logs logs
```

> Use `--juju-dump-logs` in CI with `actions/upload-artifact` to make `juju debug-log` files available as build artifacts:

Reviewer: I'd use similar wording to the previous section:

```suggestion
In CI, you can use `--juju-dump-logs` with `actions/upload-artifact` to make `juju debug-log` files available as build artifacts:
```

```toml
[tool.pytest.ini_options]
...
log_cli = true
log_cli_level = "DEBUG"
log_cli_format = "%(asctime)s %(levelname)s %(name)s %(message)s"
log_cli_date_format = "%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ"
```

We define the timestamps format with the `log_cli_date_format` key, following ISO 8601.

> See more:
> - [`datetime | strftime() and strptime() format codes`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#strftime-and-strptime-format-codes)

You can remove the timestamps without changing the mode, but we recommend leaving it in.

**Error**

Jubilant emits logs at `ERROR` level when an application or unit transition into `error` during `juju.wait()`. This mode is useful if you only care if any charm turns into error status.

```toml
[tool.pytest.ini_options]
...
log_cli = true
log_cli_level = "ERROR"
log_cli_format = "%(levelname)s %(name)s %(message)s"
```

These options can also be configured from the command line.

> See more:
> - [`pytest | How to manage logging`](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/how-to/logging.html)

(write-integration-tests-log-to-a-file)=
### Log to a file

> This is an ideal configuration for long-running integration tests (for example, in CI). It uses Brief mode for logging to the console, and Verbose mode for logging to a local file.

Reviewer: I'd change this slightly, per earlier discussion today:

```suggestion
This is an ideal configuration for long-running integration tests (for example, in CI). It outputs brief logs to the console and verbose logs to a local file.
```

```toml
[tool.pytest.ini_options]
...

log_level = "INFO"

log_cli = true
log_cli_level = "INFO"
log_cli_format = "%(levelname)s %(name)s %(message)s"

log_file = "logs/verbose.log"
log_file_level = "DEBUG"
log_file_format = "%(asctime)s %(levelname)s %(name)s %(message)s"
log_file_date_format = "%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ"
```

> When a test item fails, pytest prints all logs captured during the test to the terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a test item fails, pytest outputs all logs captured during the test to the console:
```

```
------- Captured log call -------

> ...

Reviewer: I think it would be helpful to show at least one log line here.

```

> `log_level = "INFO"` is intentional to keep the `Captured log call` consistent with Brief mode. If you want Verbose mode in `Captured log call`, you can set `log_level` to `DEBUG`.

Reviewer: If I understand correctly, this should be clear from the example and the preceding description of log levels. I'd drop the paragraph.

```suggestion
```

Author: I agree. 
May be I should remove the `Captured log call` too (from [here](https://github.com/canonical/operator/pull/2619#discussion_r3570821600)).

`Captured log call` and this paragraph explain why we need `log_level = "INFO"`. But since we explain the log levels and show the configs as is, I don't think we need to explain anymore. 

Let me know what you think.

Reviewer: Looks like it's removed in the latest version, which looks good to me :+1:

> The local file where Verbose mode logs land is `logs/verbose.log`. It contains logs from one pytest session. If you want to run multiple test suites, and store Verbose logs in separated files. You can override `log_file` for each pytest invocation:

Reviewer: I'd adjust this to avoid repeating the example and emphasise the point about one pytest session:

```suggestion
If you run the integration tests multiple times, `logs/verbose.log` only contains logs from the last pytest session. To use a separate file for each session, override `log_file` for each pytest invocation:
```

```
pytest --log-file "run1.log" ...
pytest --log-file "run2.log" ...
```

> Alternatively, you can set `log-file-mode` to `append`. Pytest will put verbose logs from all invocations into one file:

Reviewer 2: I believe pytest styles its name as always lowercase.

```suggestion
Alternatively, you can set `log-file-mode` to `append`. pytest will put verbose logs from all invocations into one file:
```

```toml
[tool.pytest.ini_options]
log-file-mode = "a"
...
```

These options can also be configured from the command line.

> > See more:

Reviewer 2: I think we're moving away from using quotes for these blocks. That means we're a bit inconsistent at the moment, but we should avoid adding new ones.

Reviewer: That's right. We ought to do a bulk replace one day. I've created https://github.com/canonical/operator/issues/2643 for that.

I'm OK if this PR adds them as body text, even if it's inconsistent. There's also no need to use bullets unless there are 3+ links.

> - [`pytest | How to manage logging`](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/how-to/logging.html)

> Use this mode in CI with `actions/upload-artifact` to make `logs/verbose.log` available as build artifacts:

Reviewer: Do we need "this mode"? How about:

```suggestion
In CI, you can use `actions/upload-artifact` to make `logs/verbose.log` available as a build artifact:
```

```yaml
  # In your integration test job
  - run: tox -e integration
  - name: Upload logs
    if: ${{ !cancelled() }}
    uses: actions/upload-artifact@v7
    with:
      name: integration-test-logs
      path: logs
```

### Default behaviour

> If no logging configuration is set by `tool.pytest.ini_options` or pytest CLI arguments, pytest captures all log messages at `WARNING` level or above and doesn't log to a file. You can still see messages from:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If no logging configuration is set by `tool.pytest.ini_options` or pytest CLI arguments, pytest captures all log messages at `WARNING` level or above and doesn't log to a file. You will still see messages from:
```

- pytest. For example: `tests/integration/test_charm.py::test_deploy PASSED`.
- other modules if they are at `WARNING` or above.

> - `pytest-jubilant`. For example: `Models were torn down...`.

Reviewer 2: @dwilding might override me on style here.

```suggestion
- pytest, for example: `tests/integration/test_charm.py::test_deploy PASSED`;
- other modules if they are at `WARNING` or above;
- and `pytest-jubilant`, for example: `Models were torn down...`.
```

Reviewer: Yeah my preference would be the version with full stops. But with a couple of tweaks:

```suggestion
- pytest. For example: `tests/integration/test_charm.py::test_deploy PASSED`.
- Other modules if the messages are at `WARNING` or above.
- `pytest-jubilant`. For example: `Models were torn down...`.
```

(write-integration-tests-for-a-charm-view-juju-logs)=
## View `juju debug-log` logs

> Save the complete `juju debug-log` logs to disk with the `--juju-dump-logs` option from `pytest-jubilant`. For example:

Reviewer 2: I think we should link out to pytest-jubilant's docs here, probably with an inline link, but otherwise with a "see more".

Author: I think an inline link would be good. I had added it.

```text
tox -e integration -- --juju-dump-logs logs
```

> Use `--juju-dump-logs` in CI with `actions/upload-artifact` to make `juju debug-log` files available as build artifacts. We can modify the GitHub Actions workflow from [](write-integration-tests-log-to-a-file):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use `--juju-dump-logs` in CI with `actions/upload-artifact` to make `juju debug-log` files available as build artifacts. Modify the GitHub Actions workflow from [](write-integration-tests-log-to-a-file):
```

> ```diff

Reviewer 2: I don't mind the diff here, but it seems like it might be simpler to not show it at all and just tell people to add the option as it is above.

Author: Yep, that's a good point. I will change it.

Author: I ended up not showing the diff, but still show the block in its final state. 

I made this decision in favor of the copy-and-paste usability. But please let me know if it's better otherwise.

> - [`pytest | How to invoke pytest`](https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.1.x/how-to/usage.html)
> - [](#validate-your-charm-with-every-change)

(write-integration-tests-for-a-charm-configuring-jubilant-logs)=

> ## Configuring Jubilant logs

Reviewer: Recommend changing for consistency with the rest of the doc (which is our usual style for headings)

```suggestion
(write-integration-tests-for-a-charm-configure-jubilant-logs)=
## Configure Jubilant logs
```

Jubilant emits logs during the integration tests. These logs are handled by pytest if you are using `pytest-jubilant`. We can configure this behavior in `pyproject.toml`.

If you initialised the charm with `charmcraft init`, the `[tool.pytest.ini_options]` table already exist in `pyproject.toml`. For example:

```toml
[tool.pytest.ini_options]
...
```

You can freely configure it to your needs.

> See more:
> - [`pytest | How to manage loggings`](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/reference/reference.html#logging)
> - [`pytest` | pyproject.toml](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/reference/customize.html#pyproject-toml)

> The sections below cover the configuration that we suggest.

Reviewer: I'd reduce the intro. I usually assume that people are going to skip over section intros and jump straight to a subsection, so I try to avoid putting any crucial details in the intro. In this case, I don't think there are any crucial details, as the structure of `pyproject.toml` is shown well in the examples in the subsections.

How about something like this:

```suggestion
Jubilant emits logs during the integration tests. If you're using `pytest-jubilant`, these logs are surfaced by pytest. You can configure the logging behaviour in the `[tool.pytest.ini_options]` table in `pyproject.toml`.
```

I recommend changing "handled by" to "surfaced by", as handled may come across as a bit vague. Maybe surfaced is not quite right either - feel free to suggest a better word!

I recommend removing the links because I couldn't see how they immediately apply. I think your examples are more helpful, so the links could be distracting. If a link would help at a specific point, I think it would be better to add it there.

Also changed "behavior" to "behaviour" as Ops is still predominantly NZ/AU/UK English even though Canonical's preference is US English.

Author: > I recommend changing "handled by" to "surfaced by", as handled may come across as a bit vague. Maybe surfaced is not quite right either - feel free to suggest a better word!

I agree, `handled` doesn't indicate that the log is shown to the terminal. How about "display" as used in the [pytest documentation](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/how-to/logging.html#how-to-manage-logging) ?

I also made a mistake in:
```
These logs are handled by pytest if you are using `pytest-jubilant`
```

Jubilant logs are captured and displayed by `pytest`, even if `pytest-jubilant` is not used. I know we suggest `pytest-jubilant`, but I can't shake off the feeling that this sentence can give a wrong impression: "the log is *only* shown when pytest-jubilant is used".

May I use this version, based on your suggestion ?

```
Jubilant emits logs during the integration tests. 
These logs are captured and displayed by pytest.
You can configure the logging behaviour in the `[tool.pytest.ini_options]` table in `pyproject.toml`.
```

I love your short introduction. I think it's better to focus on what we suggest, and not give extra information that are slightly out of scope (for example, the `You can freely configure it to your needs.` part and its links).

Reviewer: Your version looks good!

> ### Brief mode

Reviewer: No problem having a subsection for each mode. Since the doc already has a long TOC, I might consider collapsing them into a single subsection called "Logging modes" (or similar). But I haven't tried combining them myself, so fair enough if you feel that separate sections works better.

Reviewer: If you have a single section for logging modes, I think it would be reasonable to mention that this can also be controlled by CLI arguments, and provide a link. Similarly in the "Log to a file" section. I wouldn't mind the potential duplication of links, because it's likely that people will skip directly to the subsection they're interested in without necessarily reading the other subsections.

Author: I think collapsing the modes is a good idea. I will give that a try.

Each log mode subsection is not too big, so keeping them together is okay. I will put each mode in bold to separate them

```
### Logging modes
**Brief**
**Verbose**
**Error**
### Log to a file
```

```

When a test item fails, pytest prints all logs captured during the test to the terminal:

```
------- Captured log call -------
...
```

`log_level = "INFO"` is intentional to keep the `Captured log call` consistent with Brief mode. If you want Verbose mode in `Captured log call`, you can set `log_level` to `DEBUG`.

The local file where Verbose mode logs land is `logs/verbose.log`. It contains logs from one pytest session. If you want to run multiple test suites, and store Verbose logs in separated files. You can override `log_file` for each pytest invocation:

```
pytest --log-file "run1.log" ...
pytest --log-file "run2.log" ...
```

Alternatively, you can set `log-file-mode` to `append`. Pytest will put verbose logs from all invocations into one file:

```
[tool.pytest.ini_options]
log-file-mode = "a"
...
```

Use this mode in CI with `actions/upload-artifact` to make `logs/verbose.log` available as build artifacts:

```yaml
  # In your integration test job
  - run: tox -e integration
  - name: Upload logs
    if: ${{ !cancelled() }}
    uses: actions/upload-artifact@v7
    with:
      name: integration-test-logs
      path: logs
```

> ### Behavior when no pytest's logging config is set

Reviewer: Could this be simplified to "Default behaviour"? (Note the non-US spelling 😁)

Author: Yep! `Default behaviour` is a good title.

I will also go through and fix all US spellings too :smiley:

> This section covers the behavior when no logging configuration is set, either in config files, or from CLI arguments. In this case, pytest captures all log messages at `WARNING` level or above, and there is no logging to a file. You can still see messages from:

Reviewer: I generally wouldn't say what the section covers - I'd get straight into things. Something like this:

```suggestion
If no logging configuration is set by `tool.pytest.ini_options` or pytest CLI arguments, pytest captures all log messages at `WARNING` level or above and doesn't log to a file. You can still see messages from:
```

Author: That works way better. Thank you.

And I noticed something: the word pytest in this PR is not surrounded by backticks. I will use backticks for them.

Reviewer: Personally I'm OK without backticks around pytest, unless we're referring to the `pytest` command or package, as it's the name of the whole framework. Similar to Ops vs `ops`.

Author: Ah I see.

In this PR, pytest is mentioned as the name of the whole framework. I will not add the backticks in.

--no-juju-teardown`

(write-integration-tests-for-a-charm-view-juju-logs)=
## View `juju debug-log` logs

If any tests fail, `pytest-jubilant` automatically logs the last 1000 lines of `juju debug-log` at `DEBUG` level. Log messages from `pytest-jubilant` are handled depending on how you configure pytest (see [](write-integration-tests-for-a-charm-configuring-jubilant-logs):

- For Brief mode and Error mode: They don't appear anywhere.
- For Verbose mode: They appear in the terminal.
- For Log to a file: They appear in `log_file`, and don't appear in the terminal.

You can also save the complete `juju debug-log` to disk with the `--juju-dump-logs` option.

Use `--juju-dump-logs` in CI with `actions/upload-artifact` to make `juju debug-log` files available as build artifacts. We can modify the GitHub Actions from [](write-integration-tests-log-to-a-file-mode):

```diff
  # In your integration test job
-  - run: tox -e integration
+  - run: tox -e integration -- --juju-dump-logs logs
  - name: Upload logs
    if: ${{ !cancelled() }}
    uses: actions/upload-artifact@v7
    with:

>       name: integration-test-logs

Author: I rename to keep it general, as this artifact now contain both the log file generated by pytest, and the files generated by `pytest-jubilant`.
